# aitrackerbackend

aitrackerbackend is a Python-based backend service for collecting and storing events generated by the aitracker script.

## Overview
This backend receives tracking data when a user lands on a website via a link cited in an AI-generated response. It stores this data for later analysis and insight into AI-driven traffic.

## Features
- REST API endpoint for tracking events
- Stores data such as:
  - host name
  - AI source
  - path visited
- Lightweight and easy to run locally
- Designed to be self-hosted

## How to self host
- `git clone https://github.com/aleezamo/aitrackerbackend`
- `cd aitrackerbackend`
- `pip install -r requirements.txt`
- set up PostgreSQL, make sure postgres is installed and run the following command:
  - `psql -U USER_NAME -d DB_NAME -f schema.sql` 
- make a copy of .env.example as .env and provide the values of the variables according to your setup.
- `uvicorn app.main:app`


## Current Status
The backend is fully functional for collecting and storing tracking data.

A dashboard for visualizing and analyzing the data is currently in progress.

## Usage
Run the backend server and connect it to the aitracker script’s tracking endpoint.

Example endpoint:
POST /track

Example JSON payload:
```json
{
  "hostName": "example.com",
  "aiSource": "chatgpt",
  "pathName": "/blog/post-1"
}
```
## Future Improvements
* Web dashboard for analytics and visualization
* Filtering and aggregation of AI traffic
* Support for multiple sites

## Open Usage
Feel free to use, modify, and include this project in your own self-hosted setting.
